# VxScan Error Messages

VxScan is programmed to intuitively explain to a voter or poll worker problems that may occur with a ballot or the VxScan.  The following is a list of potential error messages and the actions a voter or a poll worker should take to remedy the error.

<table><thead><tr><th>Error Message</th><th width="182">Voter Action</th><th>Poll Worker Action</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Ballots Already Scanned</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Contact your election administrator.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted</td><td>Remove ballot and scan again.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - The scanner is in test mode and a live ballot was detected.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Contact your election administrator, scanner is in test mode.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - Multiple sheets detected. Remove your ballot and insert one sheet at a time. </td><td>Remove the ballot sheets and insert one sheet at a time.</td><td>If the error repeats, contact your election administrator to review double sheet detection settings. </td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - Remove ballot to continue.</td><td>Remove the ballot and scan again.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - The scanner is in official mode and a test ballot was detected. </td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Issue the voter an official ballot. Contact your election administrator if you do not have official ballots.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - The ballot does not match the election this scanner is configured for.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Verify the correct ballot was issued to the voter. Contact your election administrator for the correct ballots.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - The ballot does not match the precinct this scanner is configured for.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Contact your election administrator for the correct ballots or to change the precinct on the VxScan.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - The ballot is jammed in the scanner.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Clear the ballot jam from inside the ballot box and have the voter reinsert their ballot.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Not Counted - There was a problem scanning your ballot. Please scan it again.</td><td>Remove the ballot and scan again.</td><td>If the ballot continues to be unread, spoil the ballot and issue a new one to the voter.</td></tr><tr><td>Card is Backwards</td><td></td><td>Remove the smartcard, turn it around, and insert it again.</td></tr><tr><td>Internal Connection Problem</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Reboot the scanner. Insert the Poll Worker Card, select <em><code>No</code></em>, and <em><code>Power Down</code></em>, then replug in.<br><br>If the error continues to display, contact your election administrator to check internal cord connections.</td></tr><tr><td>Invalid Card - Remove the card to continue. </td><td></td><td>Contact your election administrator for a new Poll Worker Card.</td></tr><tr><td>No Power Detected</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Plug power cord into a live outlet.</td></tr><tr><td>Remove Your Ballot - Another ballot is being scanned.</td><td>Remove the ballot and wait for the previous ballot to be counted.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Something went wrong - Ask a poll worker to restart the scanner.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Select <em><code>Restart</code></em>. The scanner will reboot and scanning can resume.</td></tr></tbody></table>



{% hint style="info" %}
VxScan's ballot box capacity is 4000 ballot sheets. If the ballot box reaches capacity, ballots should be removed and secured according to state law and rule.
{% endhint %}
