# VxMark Error Messages

VxMark is programmed to intuitively explain to a voter or poll worker problems that may occur with a ballot or the VxMark.  The following is a list of potential error messages and the actions a voter or a poll worker should take to remedy the error.

<table><thead><tr><th>Error Message</th><th width="182">Voter Action</th><th>Poll Worker Action</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Invalid ballot inserted at start of a new voting session:</strong></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Unable to Read Ballot</td><td>N/A</td><td>Insert a blank sheet to start a new voting session. </td></tr><tr><td>No Ballot Detected</td><td>N/A</td><td>Insert a blank sheet to start a new voting session. </td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Election - The inserted sheet is a ballot from a different election. </td><td>N/A</td><td>Insert a blank sheet to start a new voting session. </td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Precinct - The inserted sheet is a ballot for a different precinct.</td><td>N/A</td><td>Insert a blank sheet to start a new voting session. </td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Ballot Mode - The inserted sheet is a test ballot.</td><td>N/A</td><td>Insert a blank sheet to start a new voting session.</td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Ballot Mode - The inserted sheet is an official ballot.</td><td>N/A</td><td>VxMark is in test mode - contact your election administrator for help.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Invalid ballot inserted before final review:</strong></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Unable to Read Ballot</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>No Ballot Detected</td><td>Remove the sheet and insert the previously printed ballot face up. </td><td>Verify the voter inserted the ballot they previously printed. If not, have them insert it face up.</td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Election - The inserted sheet is a ballot from a different election. </td><td>Remove the sheet and insert the previously printed ballot face up. </td><td>Verify the voter inserted the ballot they previously printed. If not, have them insert it face up.</td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Precinct - The inserted sheet is a ballot for a different precinct.</td><td>Remove the sheet and insert the previously printed ballot face up. </td><td>Verify the voter inserted the ballot they previously printed. If not, have them insert it face up.</td></tr><tr><td>Wrong Ballot Mode - The inserted sheet is a test ballot. </td><td>Remove the sheet and insert the previously printed ballot face up. </td><td>Verify the voter inserted the ballot they previously printed. If not, have them insert it face up.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Other error messages:</strong></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Ask a poll worker for help - There was a problem interpreting your ballot.</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Insert your poll worker card. Remove the sheet. It may have been loaded with the print side facing down. Reinsert face up or load a new sheet. </td></tr><tr><td>Ask a poll worker for help - You have indicated your ballot needs changes. </td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Insert your poll worker card. Remove the sheet and follow spoiled ballot procedures. Select <em><code>Continue</code></em> and load a new  sheet. The voter may change their previous selections.</td></tr><tr><td>Ballot Box Full</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Empty the ballot box and secure ballots as required by rule or law. Insert poll worker card and select <em><code>Yes, Ballot Box is Empty</code></em>.</td></tr><tr><td>Card Backwards</td><td>N/A</td><td>Remove the smart card, turn it around, and insert it again.</td></tr><tr><td>Internal Connection Problem</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Reboot VxMark by holding the power button on the back left of the machine until the screen goes black. Press the button again to turn it back on. If the problem persists, contact your election administrator.</td></tr><tr><td>Invalid Card - Remove the card to continue. </td><td>N/A</td><td>Try inserting the card again. If the problem persists, contact your election administrator for a new poll worker card.</td></tr><tr><td>Paper is Jammed</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Insert your poll worker card. Remove the jammed sheet, opening the printer cover of ballot bin if necessary. Start a new voting session for the voter. </td></tr><tr><td>Your voting session will restart shortly. The poll worker card was removed before paper loading completed. Please try again. </td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Insert your poll worker card and restart the voter's session. Be sure to insert paper before removing the poll worker card.</td></tr><tr><td>Printer Cover Open</td><td>Ask a poll worker for help.</td><td>Insert a poll worker card to silence the alert. Close and seal the cover to resume voting.</td></tr></tbody></table>

